How much does it cost to participate in this kind of activity?
   Unless stated, all of our activity is free of charge.
Are there any parking facilities?
   Please be advised that no parking for visitors is available at any of our campuses, this includes for coaches and buses. There are a limited number of parking spaces for Blue Badge holders, but we advise you to contact us as soon as possible to ensure availability.
Can we expect any kind of refund or discount on tickets or fares while making way to your events?
   Our Widening Participation Travel Bursary aims to bring students who have specific characteristics typically under-represented in higher education on to campus for Open Days, Taster Days and Offer Holder Days. Applications are open to individuals who fulfil the eligibility criteria. If you are a teacher or advisor wanting to apply for a Groups Travel Bursary to support a group of eligible students visiting campus, then please email the Student Recruitment and Widening Participation Team on education-liaison@qmul.ac.uk with full details of your enquiry.
Can you show me link to you Access and Participation Plan?
   Copies of our Access and Participation Plans are available using the links provided below: QMUL 2020-21 to 2024-25 Access and Participation Plan [PDF 770KB] QMUL 2019-20 Access and Participation Plan [PDF 918KB] QMUL 2018-19 Access Agreement [PDF 582KB] QMUL 2017-18 Access Agreement  [PDF 618KB]
Do you store any information on participants?
   To evaluate the impact of our work we use the Higher Education Access Tracker (HEAT). Information about the students who take part in our activities is recorded in this secure database to monitor the progression of Students to Higher Education. In addition, we utilise a range of approaches to qualitative evaluation in order to measure the impact of our activities. We have a dedicated webpage to explain the Widening Participation Data Protection Privacy Notice.
Is my data safe?
   For further information on how we use student data to inform the evaluation of our activities, please review the Data Protection Notice for Outreach Activities.
How do I forward a payment?
   Important information about non-consumer cards and unauthorised payment channels Non-consumer cards such as Corporate Purchasing/Procurement cards are not accepted at Queen Mary University of London to pay for fees. Our authorised payment channels are Online using consumer cards; Direct bank transfer to our Barclays account; or through our trusted partners Transfermate and Flywire. We reserve the right to impose additional charges if unauthorised payment channels are used. Refunds will only be made by the same method, back to the same card from which the original payment was made. Online at www.qmul.ac.uk/epay You can pay online using a debit or credit card (VISA and MasterCard only). You will need your Student ID or Application Number, which can be found on any correspondence from Queen Mary. By bank transfer Please make sure that the transfer includes any charges made by your bank and the receiving bank. Your payment reference must include your name, student number and state "Tuition fees". Barclays Bank Plc, 1 Churchill Place, London E14 5HPSort code: 20-57-30Account number: 20218782IBAN: GB37BARC20573020218782Swift code: BARCGB22 Pay in your Local Currency (International Payments) Queen Mary has partnered with Transfermate/Barclays and Flywire to offer international payers additional cost-effective ways to pay in their local currency. For example, Indian Rupees in India; Euro in Europe etc.  Both facilities offer a similar service and, depending on the country of the payer, different payment options will be presented. This includes local currency card payment or bank transfer to an in-country bank. Both payment facilities offer multilingual support and assistance. Queen Mary will receive the full value in Pound Sterling (GBP). You will need your Applicant/Student number to make the payment which can be found on any correspondence from Queen Mary University of London. Pay via Transfermate/Barclays Transfermate/Barclays payments via the Transfermate portal. International payers will be presented with payment options in their local currency for both card payments and bank transfers. Pay via Barclays-Transfermate Pay via Flywire Flywire payments via the Queen Mary, University of London online payment portal. International payers will be presented with payment options in their local currency for both card payments and bank transfers. Pay via Flywire
Do you offer payment plans or installments?
   If your tuition fee is more than £1000, you can arrange a payment plan with the Fees office to pay by instalments. Full details and the link to the online payment plan portal can be found here There is a non-refundable administration fee of £50 to pay by instalments. This charge does not apply to home fee-paying undergraduate students. The fee can be paid here: https://epay.qmul.ac.uk
Do any additional charges apply if I am from abroad?
   Your fee status determines the rate of fees that you will pay for your course at Queen Mary Your fee status is assessed by the Admissions Office during your application process. If you believe you have been assessed incorrectly, you must complete a Fee Status Questionnaire and return it alongside the relevant supporting information as soon as possible and by no later than 31 October (for programmes starting in September) or within two weeks of your enrolment deadline (for programmes starting in any other month). Please be advised that your fee status is shown to you during the Pre-Enrolment task within the 'Personal, Financial and Academic details' section. If you believe your fee status is incorrect then you should not finish Pre-Enrolment. Completing the task means that you have accepted your assessed fee status and accept liability for the associated fees. If you have already completed it then you should see the Admissions Fees Status webpage for guidance on appealing.
How do you reconcile installment payments?
   Your invoice will always quote your full tuition fees as shown on your offer letter. The invoice will not deduct any upfront payments or deposit payments. You are not expected to pay the full invoice amount if you have already made a payment towards your fees. You are only expected to pay the balance after deducting your upfront payments. An up-to-date statement of your account is shown under the MyFinance section of MySIS. This will show your current balance and amount to pay. Example: Total fee: £20,000 Deposit paid £2,000 (Invoice will show £20,000) Amount to pay: £20,000 - £2000 =  £18,000 If you are paying in full before enrolment to take advantage of the 1% discount you must also deduct the 1% discount. The 1% discount is against the invoice amount. In the example above the 1% discount would be £200 therefore you would pay £18,000 - £200 = £17,800
Are there any rules as to the fees charged in the future?
   The university may increase future university fees for continuing students by an amount defined each academic year. The increase in university fees for unregulated university fees in 22/23 will be 1.8 %. There are certain exceptions, such as for students returning from a period of interruption, students progressing from Year 0 to Year 1 in an undergraduate degree with an integrated foundation year and medical/dental students progressing from the non-clinical to clinical years of their programme. When the inflationary increase is applied, fees are generally rounded up to the nearest £10 or £50. Future fee increases for unregulated fee will not be more than 3%
Does it cover all of my expenses?
   Some courses include compulsory field trips, the cost of which is additional to tuition fees. You will be notified of any additional fees with your offer of admission.
I was not supposed to get the invoice?
   It is possible that your department has not yet notified the Fees Office of your scholarship. Please email a copy of your scholarship confirmation letter to feesponsor@qmul.ac.uk and we will update your invoice. If your fees will be paid by a sponsor, please email an official sponsorship letter to feesponsor@qmul.ac.ukThe letter should include the following on a company-headed paper. Student's full name and student/applicant ID number Student's full name and student/applicant ID number Invoice address Invoice contact person and contact details Sponsorship amount Academic year(s) Programme name Purchase order number (if required) Please note Queen Mary will only accept sponsors if they pass a credit check and are agreeing to pay the fees directly to Queen Mary. Families and friends will not be accepted as official sponsors. Please note Queen Mary will only accept sponsors if they pass a credit check and are agreeing to pay the fees directly to Queen Mary. Families and friends will not be accepted as official sponsors. You may be eligible for a Queen Mary Bursary if you have applied to your regional student funding authority for income assessed UK government financial support. Further details can be found on this page If you are in receipt of an NHS bursary, please email a copy of your NHS bursary award letter to feesponsor@qmul.ac.uk along with your student ID number and we will invoice NHS directly.
What is the deadline for tuition fees?
   You must pay your tuition fees before full enrolment each academic year. Enrolment dates can be found here https://www.qmul.ac.uk/newstudents/enrolment/late-or-temporary-enrolment/ The final deadline to pay your fees and/or arrange a payment plan in 2022/23 is: New Student: 14th October 2022 Continuing Students: 7th October 2022  Your fee amount is shown on your offer letter , your invoice, MySIS and our website. New Student Fees: https://www.qmul.ac.uk/courses/ Continuing fees: https://arcs.qmul.ac.uk/students/finances/tuition-fees/
I was expecting to receive my loan payment from Student Finance, why hasn't it happened?
   You will not receive the postgraduate loan payment from Student Finance until you are fully enrolled. You MUST arrange a payment plan as per the full instructions here https://www.qmul.ac.uk/tuitionfees/tuition-fee-payment-plans/  before you can be fully enrolled. You will also need to pay a £50 admin charge and at least 50% of the fee that is not covered by the postgraduate loan. Below are the main payment deadlines for students who are paying the postgraduate loan portion by instalments. First Instalment Due : 15th October 2022 Second Instalment Due: 15th January 2023 Third Instalment Due: 15th May 2023  Further details and scenario examples can be found here https://www.qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/tuitionfees/payment/
How do I get a bank letter?
   The bank letter (correctly named Student Status Letter) can only be given to student who are fully enrolled. You will need to pay your fees before you are fully enrolled therefore you will need to find an alternative way to pay your fees other than via a UK bank account. Payments can be transferred directly to Queen Mary University bank account or payment can be made by card online. Full payment details here
How does a payment timeline look like?
   You must pay your tuition fees before you enrol for each academic year. Please refer to the enrolment page for key dates: You will receive an invoice by email before the start of your course each year, typically in late August or early September. The invoice will be sent once you complete the online enrolment via MySIS.  If you would like to make a fee payment before mid-late August and your Admissions status is Unconditional Firm (UF) please visit MySis where the amount payable can be found in the My Finance section. If you have not received your invoice, please check your email junk folder. If you would like a copy of your invoice, please email fees@qmul.ac.uk along with your Student ID Number.
What does my fee rate depend on?
   Your fee status determines the rate of fees that you will pay for your course at Queen Mary.Your fee status depends on: Nationality Nationality Immigration status in the UK Where you have been living and your vocation for the three years prior to the start of your course. If you applied for immigration permission to study at Queen Mary but this is refused, and you were unable to travel to or remain in the UK to study at Queen Mary. You must provide an immigration refusal notice You are initially refused entry clearance to travel to the UK and your successful appeal comes through too late to start at Queen Mary on time. Documentary evidence must be provided. If Queen Mary does not provide the programme as advertised. If you are required to pay a deposit to accept a conditional offer and the place is not confirmed because you don’t meet the conditions of the offer. If you can’t apply for a visa because Queen Mary is unable to issue a CAS. The Admissions Team will assess the information in your application with UK Government regulations to set your fee status. The Admissions Team will assess the information in your application with UK Government regulations to set your fee status. Unsure of what your fee status is? Visit our fee status assessment page The fee status assessment will remain in place for the course of your studies. Some students((https://www.ukcisa.org.uk/Information--Advice/Fees-and-Money/England-fee-status#layer-6082) can be considered for home fees after starting their course. If you meet one of the UKCISA categories, you will need to complete a fee status questionnaire (https://www.qmul.ac.uk/undergraduate/apply/policies/feestatus) You will be charged a reduced fee if you are on a full year abroad or industrial placement as part of your course. Please refer to the university fee schedules
Do any discounts apply?
   Students whose university fees are £10,000 or higher will receive a 1% discount if they pay their fees in full before enrolment. The prompt payment discount applies to students who pay the overseas rate of fees on undergraduate and postgraduate programmes and Home students on postgraduate programmes. It does not apply to 'Home fee' paying undergraduate students and Channel Islands or Isle of Man students, where the fees are regulated by the UK government. You are strongly advised to deduct 1% from the full tuition fee and pay 99% rather than paying full fees with the view of applying for a refund. If you have already paid full tuition fees, you will need to submit a refund request via MySIS before January 31st for September starters and before 30th April for January starters.
Is it possible to get my deposit refunded?
   Deposits are usually non-refundable and non-transferable. Deposits may be refunded under the exceptional circumstances outlined in our refund policy. Full details about our Refund policy for deposit payments https://www.qmul.ac.uk/postgraduate/taught/tuitionfees/deposits/ If you meet one of the above criteria, you may submit a refund request via MySIS under the My Finances section. Refunds take up to 21 days to process, during the busy enrolment period this can take longer.
Do I need to leave a deposit?
   If you are funding your studies using a UK postgraduate loan, we may waive the deposit if you provide us with evidence of the loan award.
Where do I find my outstanding amounts to pay?
   New student tuition fees are published on our website. Continuing fees are published on the Intranet. Your tuition fee will also be quoted on your offer letter and on your invoice.View your tuition fee account under the My Finance section of MySIS.
I was not expecting to receive an invoice with full fees. Can you explain?
   Your invoice will always quote your full tuition fees as shown on your offer. The invoice will not deduct any upfront payments or deposit payments. You are not expected to pay the full invoice if you have already made a payment towards your fees. You are only expected to pay the balance after deducting your payments. An up-to-date statement of your account is shown under the MyFinance section of MySIS.
What do I do if I cannot pay?
   If you are a new student unable to pay your fees you won’t fully enrol until you have paid your tuition fees or arranged a payment plan. If you are enrolled and unable to pay your fees by the deadline, please refer to the 'Failure to Pay' section of the Tuition Fee Regulations If you need any further assistance, please email fees@qmul.ac.uk. Or refer to the Advice and Counselling funding guides for further information about financial support https://www.welfare.qmul.ac.uk/student-advice-guides/
Do you offer Scholarships at Queen Mary?
   Please refer to our Scholarships database.
Can you advise on my finances?
   Undertaking a degree course over a number of years involves careful financial planning. During this period prices are likely to rise and you must allow for this when planning your finances. Our Advice and Counselling Service can offer financial advice to International students.
Is it ok if I pay my fees prior to pre-enrolment?
   You can pay your fees online ahead of completing Pre-enrolment. If you have any questions about your fee payment, please contact fees@qmul.ac.uk and remember to include your student ID number in any correspondence.
Please explain enrolment process and fees?
   Enrolment is the process whereby you become a registered student. It involves you checking that the information that we have for you is correct, sending us any information that were missing and confirming that you will be studying with us on your chosen programme. In order to be fully enrolled, you should complete Pre-Enrolment in MySIS, the Student Record system. You will be required to: Confirm your personal and academic details Confirm your personal and academic details Provide a photo of yourself for your student record Provide proof of your identity (e.g. passport) Pay or make arrangements to pay your tuition fees / give us information about your Student Loan Read and accept QMUL Policies and Regulations Full guidance on the enrolment process is available online, including a timeline of the process, deadlines, what documents are required from you (including what documents are acceptable) and what services and facilities you will have access to once enrolment is complete. Full guidance on the enrolment process is available online, including a timeline of the process, deadlines, what documents are required from you (including what documents are acceptable) and what services and facilities you will have access to once enrolment is complete. If you have any questions about enrolment or any aspect of the process, please do have a look through the rest of the FAQs on this page to see if your query has already been answered.
Do i need to be fully enrolled before I receive student finance?
    Yes, you will need to be fully enrolled before Student Finance will release any funding to you. Please see the Student Finance Funding page for more information.
How do I register with a medic?
   I have a disability – who should I contact? The Disability and Dyslexia Service offers support for all students with disabilities, specific learning difficulties and mental health issues at Queen Mary. I would like to speak to someone about my mental health – who can I contact? Mental health support at Queen Mary is largely split between two teams: the Advice and Counselling Service, and the Disability and Dyslexia Service. If you are concerned about your mental health and would like to someone urgently, please contact the Advice and Counselling Service with a view to making an appointment with one of our Mental Health Advisers. Mental Health Advisers will see students presenting with a mental health crisis in terms of their immediate safety; they can also offer interventions with students with poor mental health e.g. sleep hygiene, anxiety management etc. The Advice and Counselling Service also has a long established counselling team. To contact Advice and Counselling please complete their webform. If you have an existing mental health diagnosis you can also contact one of the Mental Health Advisers, but if you are interested in accessing support through the Disabled Student’s Allowance (DSA) scheme, or accessing reasonable adjustments such as exam arrangements, you can contact the Disability Advisers (Mental Health) who are based in the Disability and Dyslexia Service. They can be reached on dds@qmul.ac.uk. If you are worried about your own safety or someone else's, please ring 999. For more information on support in a crisis please visit our webpage. I want to find out more about staying healthy as a student – where do I go? You can visit Student Health Service page to get advice and support about staying healthy.
What do I do if I am disabled?
       Mental health support at Queen Mary is largely split between two teams: the Advice and Counselling Service, and the Disability and Dyslexia Service. If you are concerned about your mental health and would like to someone urgently, please contact the Advice and Counselling Service with a view to making an appointment with one of our Mental Health Advisers. Mental Health Advisers will see students presenting with a mental health crisis in terms of their immediate safety; they can also offer interventions with students with poor mental health e.g. sleep hygiene, anxiety management etc. The Advice and Counselling Service also has a long established counselling team. To contact Advice and Counselling please complete their webform. If you have an existing mental health diagnosis you can also contact one of the Mental Health Advisers, but if you are interested in accessing support through the Disabled Student’s Allowance (DSA) scheme, or accessing reasonable adjustments such as exam arrangements, you can contact the Disability Advisers (Mental Health) who are based in the Disability and Dyslexia Service. They can be reached on dds@qmul.ac.uk. If you are worried about your own safety or someone else's, please ring 999. For more information on support in a crisis please visit our webpage. I want to find out more about staying healthy as a student – where do I go? You can visit Student Health Service page to get advice and support about staying healthy.
How can I take care of my health?
       Mental health support at Queen Mary is largely split between two teams: the Advice and Counselling Service, and the Disability and Dyslexia Service. If you are concerned about your mental health and would like to someone urgently, please contact the Advice and Counselling Service with a view to making an appointment with one of our Mental Health Advisers. Mental Health Advisers will see students presenting with a mental health crisis in terms of their immediate safety; they can also offer interventions with students with poor mental health e.g. sleep hygiene, anxiety management etc. The Advice and Counselling Service also has a long established counselling team. To contact Advice and Counselling please complete their webform. If you have an existing mental health diagnosis you can also contact one of the Mental Health Advisers, but if you are interested in accessing support through the Disabled Student’s Allowance (DSA) scheme, or accessing reasonable adjustments such as exam arrangements, you can contact the Disability Advisers (Mental Health) who are based in the Disability and Dyslexia Service. They can be reached on dds@qmul.ac.uk. If you are worried about your own safety or someone else's, please ring 999. For more information on support in a crisis please visit our webpage. I want to find out more about staying healthy as a student – where do I go? You can visit Student Health Service page to get advice and support about staying healthy.
Is there any IT support?
   You can also raise an online ticket by emailing servicedesk@qmul.ac.uk. How do I connect to Wi-Fi? Use CAT installers to connect to Universities’ Wi-Fi securely – you can download and set-up CAT before arriving on campus! Use CAT installers to connect to Universities’ Wi-Fi securely – you can download and set-up CAT before arriving on campus! Configuration using eduroam CAT sets up security so that your device will confirm that it is talking to the correct authentication server before sending your credentials (username and password), and will never send your password to an untrusted server. You can already set this up from the comfort of your home or that holiday destination before the start of academic year! We encourage you to do that as soon as you receive Queen Mary’s account details. BONUS! If you are in an area where Eduroam Wi-Fi is available (most UK-based Universities and some European-based Universities), you will be able to connect to their Wi-Fi free of charge. Configuring a device for eduroam using the eduroam Configuration Assistance Tool (CAT) 1. Enter your QMUL username (e.g. ab16543@qmul.ac.uk) 2. Enter your password Further instructions for connecting to WiFi can be found here. Don't forget, round-the-clock help is available to students and staff via Live Chat https://www.its.qmul.ac.uk/
Where do I find WiFi details ?
   Configuration using eduroam CAT sets up security so that your device will confirm that it is talking to the correct authentication server before sending your credentials (username and password), and will never send your password to an untrusted server. You can already set this up from the comfort of your home or that holiday destination before the start of academic year! We encourage you to do that as soon as you receive Queen Mary’s account details. BONUS! If you are in an area where Eduroam Wi-Fi is available (most UK-based Universities and some European-based Universities), you will be able to connect to their Wi-Fi free of charge. Configuring a device for eduroam using the eduroam Configuration Assistance Tool (CAT) 1. Enter your QMUL username (e.g. ab16543@qmul.ac.uk) 2. Enter your password Further instructions for connecting to WiFi can be found here. Don't forget, round-the-clock help is available to students and staff via Live Chat https://www.its.qmul.ac.uk/
Should apply for accommodation after I receive my results?
    No. You should apply as soon as the Admissions Office sends your username and password, this is generated once you accept your offer to study at Queen Mary. You will not be expected to accept your offer of housing until after you get your results.
How do I get information about housing and application forms?
   No, all applications must now be made online. For further information, deadlines, and housing policy please visit our applications page.
I am having trouble applying online due some technical issues. What do I do?
    You can only apply for Accommodation if you have accepted a place to study at the University; you must have accepted a Conditional or Unconditional (Firm) offer to apply for Accommodation online. There may be a few hours delay in you being able to apply for housing after you receive your login details from Admissions (Please take this delay into consideration if you will be applying close to our stated deadlines). If you experience any significant delay, please email housingservices@qmul.ac.uk. Once you have submitted your housing application, you will receive an email confirmation from Housing Services.
Can I modify my accommodation submission?
   Yes - you are able to amend your application form for a short time once it has been submitted. This is to ensure that you are happy with your selected preferences before an offer of accommodation is sent to you. Please note you will be unable to edit your application once room allocations commence between June - September.
How do I proceed when changing my details?
    Unfortunately, we cannot change any details that you provided to UCAS/Queen Mary’s Admissions and Recruitment Office. You will need to officially change your details via ucas.com and you will also have to check that your details have been updated with Queen Mary’s Admissions and Recruitment Office. If you have changed your parental home address from the one that is on your UCAS/direct university application, in order for your accommodation application to be reviewed you will also be required to provide Housing Services with: a) Proof of the completion of sale of the current permanent home address or proof of the letting of the property to a new tenant (if the home address is rented) andb) If your parents are re-locating within the British Isles, proof of the new address and your registration with a doctor at the new address.c) If your parents are re-locating abroad, copies of their visas or permission to work and letter from new employer confirming their contract. Once the necessary documentation is received your application will be reviewed.
Am I required to take a quarantine?
   All arriving residents must check the UK Government’s Travel information before completing an Arrive Safe form, as you may be able to exempt yourself from isolation if you are fully vaccinated and have the proof required, as defined by the UK Government. If you have any queries regarding travel self-isolation, please contact the Residential Welfare team using: residentialwelfare@qmul.ac.uk If you have a query regarding amending your licence agreement to arrive earlier, or any other queries in relation to your application, licence agreement or fees, please contact the Housing Services team, using: housingservices@qmul.ac.uk.
Will I be compensated if travel restrictions delay my arrival on campus?
   You will be liable for residential fees from the start date of your licence agreement. However in the case of international students, if you think there will be a significant delay with your planned arrival due to Government enforced travel restrictions, please contact us for further guidance. We will advise you to cancel your licence agreement, without penalty, and contact us again when you have a confirmed arrival date. You will then be offered a new licence agreement for the revised arrival date, subject to availability.
Can I move in a bit earlier?
   Please email us, after you have received and accepted your housing offer, to check if an earlier move in date is possible. If not we will provide information on short-stay and hotel options. We recommend that you do not book your flight until we have confirmed that we can accommodate your early arrival.
What should I do if a dangerous situation happens?
   Security services and residential staff are on call 24 hours a day, 7 days a week - you can find out how to contact these services on the Residential Services website, Residences Reception at Mile End is open 24 hours a day, 7 days a week.
What do I do if I could not find any accommodation on the market?
   Housing Services offer private sector housing guidance on our website, please email us via housingservices@qmul.ac.uk with any questions or queries you may have. We are accepting applications for residences from returning students for the 2023-24 academic year, however these applications will be placed on a waiting list, and we cannot guarantee if or when we will be able to send you a room offer. Returning students who have placed an application with us will be contacted once we have met our commitment to the guarantee for new students, but please be aware this may be after the start of the academic year. Eligibility information can be found online.
When do I find out about my accommodation allocation?
   We begin room allocations in mid-July and this process continues throughout the rest of the summer, in numerous rounds of allocations. To check your application status, please log into to the application portal. When an offer is available to you, you will be sent an email and your offer will appear on your online account. For more information please see our website.
Am I allowed to request an alternative housing?
   Queen Mary student accommodation is oversubscribed and whilst you are asked to prioritise your preferences, no guarantees are made. All allocations are made at the sole discretion of the university. Please note that if you reject your offer of accommodation your application will be placed on a wait list until all other unallocated students have been made an offer, so we cannot guarantee that you will receive another offer of a room in halls.
When do I pay my rent?
   The advance rent payment (£400.00) is due by the deadline date on your online accommodation offer. You will be required to pay by credit or debit card, at the same time that you accept your housing offer online. If you are unable to do this, please contact Housing Services for further instructions.
How do I arrange catering with accommodation?
   All Queen Mary halls of residence are self-catered. However, there are many catering outlets on the campus, or you can make a direct application for one of the fully catered halls via the University of London.
Are there only coed dormitories?
    We allocate a number of single sex flats in the residences that share bathroom facilities. In our en-suite residences (where there are no shared bathrooms) all flats are mixed sex.
Will I live with students of different ages?
    No. We designate certain building for each type of student. Sometimes we may allocate mature undergraduates/exchange students who are over 22 years old with postgraduates, but generally they are kept separate.
Can I quit a licence agreement?
    No. You will have signed a legally binding licence agreement for a full academic year (this condition does not apply to mid-year starters): Undergraduate Applicants -  from September to June (approximately 37 weeks, unless you are a single semester Study Abroad student). Undergraduate Applicants -  from September to June (approximately 37 weeks, unless you are a single semester Study Abroad student). Postgraduate Applicants - from September to September (approximately 51 weeks, unless you are a single semester Study Abroad student). We can only release you from your rent liability if we manage to re-let your room to another eligible student.
Can I stay at the dormitory during bank holidays or vacation?
    You do not need to move out during holiday periods. The room is yours for the full licence period.
Will you assist me in finding a commercial accommodation?
   Yes. We have many years of experience in helping students find suitable private accommodation. The section contains a full set of guidance notes. There is also an online property search facility, and a Student Share Messageboard where students can advertise vacancies for co-sharers.
Can I park my car on campus?
   There are no parking facilities available to students living in any Queen Mary residences, except for moving in and moving out weekends. However, as a resident you can apply for a local authority parking permit to park in the streets nearby.
Is it true you don't provide bed sheets at the university accommodation?
    Yes, or you can purchase these items from Queen Mary online shop. If you do decide to bring your own bed linen, the approximate bed size is 90cm x 190cm (3'0" x 6'3"). What to take to University - Essentials Checklist.
Can I send a package with my stuff ahead of my arrival?
   We do not have the facilities to accept or store luggage/post before you arrive. Please ensure the delivery arrives after you do. The University is under no legal obligation to sign for any delivery on a student’s behalf and belongings will not be covered by the University's block insurance policy until the student is in residence.
Do you offer guest rooms?
   Unfortunately, we do not have guest rooms in the residences. Please see our alternative accommodation webpages for details of local hotels, hostels, and short-stay options.
Can I get to know people I am going to live with?
   Due to the Data Protection Act 1998 the University cannot provide you with the details of your new flat/house mates. However, many students visit social networking sites such as Facebook to make contact with other people who will be living in their area. If you choose to use any social media to find flat mates (on or off campus) please remember that the majority of these sites are public, and anyone can view your name, and possibly your address, online including other personal details.
I have disability and need my assistance animal. Can I keep it with me?
   Please refer to the Queen Mary policy on Assistance Animals at www.dds.qmul.ac.uk/accommodation or www.dds.qmul.ac.uk/staffinfo.
When is the weekend for moving in?
    Moving in Weekend for 2023-24 is Friday 15th September to Sunday 17th September.
How do I enrol?
    Enrolment is the process whereby you become a registered student. It involves you checking that the information that we have for you is correct, sending us any information that we're missing and confirming that you will be studying with us on your chosen programme. In order to be fully enrolled, you should complete Pre-Enrolment in MySIS, the Student Record system. You will be required to: Confirm your personal and academic details Confirm your personal and academic details Provide a photo of yourself for your student record Provide proof of your identity (e.g. passport) Pay or make arrangements to pay your tuition fees / give us information about your Student Loan Read and accept QMUL Policies and Regulations Full guidance on the enrolment process is available online, including a timeline of the process, deadlines, what documents are required from you (including what documents are acceptable) and what services and facilities you will have access to once enrolment is complete. Full guidance on the enrolment process is available online, including a timeline of the process, deadlines, what documents are required from you (including what documents are acceptable) and what services and facilities you will have access to once enrolment is complete. If you have any questions about enrolment or any aspect of the process, please do have a look through the rest of the FAQs on this page to see if your query has already been answered.
Guide me to the Pre-Enrolment in MySIS?
   MySIS is the QMUL student record system and is the platform you will use to complete Pre-Enrolment. MySIS records your enrolment information, registered modules, financial information, personal details and provisional results, amongst other things. After you have been invited to complete Pre-Enrolment, once you have logged in to MySIS you should be able to see the 'My Enrolment' tab as an option along the menu bar at the top of the screen. If you have access to the task then you are eligible to complete it and should do so as soon as possible in order to ensure a smooth enrolment onto your programme. If accessing MySIS from a mobile device, you can access the menu options via the 3 horizonal lines in the top right hand corner. If you do not have access to the Pre-Enrolment task within the 'My Enrolment' tab: Please choose the 'My Courses' tab in MySIS and select your most recent programme/the programme you are attempting to Pre-Enrol on as your new default programme. You should now find the Pre-Enrolment task is available to you within 'My Enrolment'. You should complete Pre-Enrolment by your enrolment deadline. Failure to do so means you risk de-registration.
I cannot login. Can I have anyone assist me with completing Pre-Enrolment?
   Once you are eligible for enrolment, you will receive an email inviting you to complete Pre-Enrolment in MySIS. This email also contains your MySIS log-in details. Please see our enrolment timeline for guidance on when these invitations will start to be sent out to the personal email address you gave us during the application process. If you have less than two weeks until the start of your programme and you have not received the invitation, please contact Admissions via the MySIS Applicant Portal. If you have less than two weeks until the start of your programme and you have not received the invitation, please contact Admissions via the MySIS Applicant Portal. If you have received your invitation to Pre-Enrol but your login details for MySIS are not working, please seek support from IT Services who have a 24/7 live chat facility and phone line +44 020 7882 8888. Please note that Admissions and IT Services cannot help you with completing your enrolment so please only contact them if you have not received your email inviting you to complete Pre-Enrolment with your login credentials or your credentials are not working.
When is Queen Mary Enrolment?
    Students starting on Monday 16 January 2023: We expect that Queen Mary Enrolment will start for those students who have completed Pre-Enrolment and uploaded a suitable proof of identification from Friday 6 January 2023. For students starting on any other date: Queen Mary Enrolment will take place before your programme start date, as long as you have completed Pre-Enrolment and provided a suitable proof of identification. Queen Mary Enrolment takes place every working day until the enrolment deadline for those students who have completed Pre-Enrolment and uploaded a suitable identity document. Please remember to check your email accounts - if Queen Mary Enrolment hasn't been completed yet it may be because we've asked you to upload further documentation (e.g. a clearer photo of your identification document) before we can proceed. Queen Mary Enrolment takes place every working day until the enrolment deadline for those students who have completed Pre-Enrolment and uploaded a suitable identity document. Please remember to check your email accounts - if Queen Mary Enrolment hasn't been completed yet it may be because we've asked you to upload further documentation (e.g. a clearer photo of your identification document) before we can proceed. You can view our Enrolment Timeline to get an overview of when you can expect things to happen. Please note that Queen Mary Enrolment will start for most students in January. Emails are sent following a change to your enrolment status so please make sure you check your personal and QMUL email accounts for updates and information on your status.
Is it possible to enrol earlier?
   Please be advised that we cannot accept requests to be enrolled early. Queen Mary enrolment for undergraduate and postgraduate taught students with a start date of Monday 16 January will start on Friday 6 January 2023. We enrol students on a daily basis and are enrolling in the order that students completed their Pre-Enrolment. Therefore, please be patient and wait for Queen Mary to take place. Please also remember to check your QM email account. We will email you to confirm that you have been enrolled but we will also email you if we cannot complete your enrolment as we require you to re-upload a document, such as a valid proof of ID.
When is the last day to enrol?
   The latest official date for becoming fully enrolled or for resolving temporary enrolment is recorded on our Enrolment Deadlines webpage. For students starting a programme in January 2023, the enrolment deadline is 3 February 2023. If you have been granted temporary enrolment, you must convert this to full enrolment by 10 February 2023. You must complete Pre-Enrolment in MySIS by your enrolment deadline (3 February 2023). Failure to do so will mean that Registry Services will not be able to proceed with your enrolment. If you complete Pre-Enrolment after the enrolment deadline, Registry Services will seek authorisation from your School/Institute who have the final decision on whether they will or will not allow you to enrol late onto the programme before they can proceed. If you fail to complete Pre-Enrolment by the enrolment deadline and your School/Institute do not authorise your late enrolment onto the programme then you will be de-registered from the university.
Where do I find out about my enrolment status?
   There are a few ways that you can check your enrolment status. Please be reminded that once you have completed Pre-Enrolment, this does not mean that you are fully enrolled - Queen Mary Enrolment still needs to take place which will lead to your full or temporary enrolment. 1. Check your email! Please be advised that we send update emails to both your personal and Queen Mary email addresses as you progress through the enrolment process. These emails will confirm things such as: you are eligible to start Pre-Enrolment you are eligible to start Pre-Enrolment you have successfully completed Pre-Enrolment you have been granted Temporary Enrolment you have been Fully Enrolled 2. Check 'My Details' in MySIS 2. Check 'My Details' in MySIS You can view your enrolment status in MySIS in the ‘My Details’ tab. Scroll down to ‘Enrolment Status’ and you will be able to see what your status is: Cleared to Enrol: You should complete Pre-Enrolment Cleared to Enrol: You should complete Pre-Enrolment Completed Pre-Enrolment: You have completed Pre-Enrolment and are awaiting Queen Mary Enrolment Temporary Enrolled: Queen Mary Enrolment has taken place and you have been granted temporary enrolment. Check your email or the 'My Enrolment' tab in MySIS for the reason(s) why Fully Enrolled: Queen Mary Enrolment has taken place and you have been fully enrolled 3. Check 'My Enrolment' in MySIS 3. Check 'My Enrolment' in MySIS Once you have completed Pre-Enrolment, the task will appear differently to you and it will confirm at the top of the page that you have completed the task. Please wait for Queen Mary Enrolment to take place. Within the 'My Enrolment' tab, if you have been granted temporary enrolment, the task will allow you to view your temporary enrolment details and will display the check that you have failed. A failed check is indicated by a cross (x) in a circle. You should resolve your temporary enrolment in order to become fully enrolled. If you are still unsure why you have been temporarily enrolled, please refer to your enrolment email as this specifies which check you have failed and requires resolution. The email subject line is 'Your Enrolment at QMUL'. Please note that Queen Mary Enrolment will start for most students in January. Emails are sent following a change to your enrolment status so please make sure you check your personal and QMUL email accounts for updates and information on your status.
How can I add photo to preenrolment?
    As part of Pre-Enrolment you are asked to upload a photo of yourself (for your student record and student ID card) and a photo of your identification document, such as your passport biographic details page. Full guidance is available in the task regarding what constitutes a suitable image. Some guidance on how to upload the images is below: Photo Upload This should be a clear photo of yourself in a .JPG format and less than 2mb. Within the file uploader, click ‘Browse My Computer’ to find your photo. Within the file uploader, click ‘Browse My Computer’ to find your photo. Once you have selected your photo, a message will appear that says ‘File Status – Awaiting Upload’. If needed, click the ‘Edit Image’ button to crop or rotate your image and click ‘Accept’ once you are satisfied with the image. If you don't need to edit, skip to the next step. Once you’re ready to submit your photo, click ‘Upload’, which is underneath the ‘Browse My Computer’ button that you clicked on previously. If your photo has uploaded correctly, the message should now read ‘File Status – Successfully Uploaded 100%’ Click 'Save & Continue' – you should now see a preview of what you have uploaded. NOTE: When viewing the preview of what you have uploaded, please be aware that this is what QMUL staff will see when processing your enrolment. Please make sure the image is clear and meets the requirements of what constitutes a suitable image of yourself. If we cannot see the image clearly or it is not suitable then this will delay your enrolment as we will not be able to proceed. NOTE: When viewing the preview of what you have uploaded, please be aware that this is what QMUL staff will see when processing your enrolment. Please make sure the image is clear and meets the requirements of what constitutes a suitable image of yourself. If we cannot see the image clearly or it is not suitable then this will delay your enrolment as we will not be able to proceed. ID Upload This should be up to two photos/documents that prove your identity and nationality. Uploads should be less than 3mb and must be one of the following file types: JPE, JPEG, JPG, PDF, DOC, DOCX or PNG. Acceptable documents are listed on our enrolment documentation webpage. Within the ‘Photographic ID’ box you should select a ‘Photo ID Type’ from the dropdown. If you are uploading an image of your passport biographic details page then you only need to submit the one image. If you are uploading an image of your EU Photocard Driving Licence or Armed Forces Identity card then a second upload box will appear and you should upload an additional identity document as specified. Within the ‘Photographic ID’ box you should select a ‘Photo ID Type’ from the dropdown. If you are uploading an image of your passport biographic details page then you only need to submit the one image. If you are uploading an image of your EU Photocard Driving Licence or Armed Forces Identity card then a second upload box will appear and you should upload an additional identity document as specified. You should then click ‘Choose file’ to browse your device for your required file. Repeat the previous step in the ‘Additional ID’ box if you are required to submit an additional document. Click ‘Save & Continue’ - you should see confirmation that your document has uploaded successfully and can view a preview of what you have submitted. NOTE: When viewing the preview of what you have uploaded, please be aware that this is what QMUL staff will see when processing your enrolment. Please make sure the image is clear and meets the requirements of an acceptable identity document. If we cannot see the image clearly, it has expired or it is not sufficient evidence of you identity or nationality then this will delay your enrolment as we will not be able to proceed. NOTE: When viewing the preview of what you have uploaded, please be aware that this is what QMUL staff will see when processing your enrolment. Please make sure the image is clear and meets the requirements of an acceptable identity document. If we cannot see the image clearly, it has expired or it is not sufficient evidence of you identity or nationality then this will delay your enrolment as we will not be able to proceed. You can replace a photo or document by uploading another.  If you cannot upload your photo/documents and you have tried re-uploading as a different file type and followed the guidance above (noting that your 'Photo Upload' can only be a .JPG file), please email your documents to your enrolment team who will be able to assist you. Please be advised that all teams receive a high volume of enquiries during the enrolment period and we aim to respond to you within 10 working days, although it may take longer during peak periods: Postgraduate Research (PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates): pgrenrolment@qmul.ac.uk Postgraduate Research (PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates): pgrenrolment@qmul.ac.uk All other students should email enrolment@qmul.ac.uk
Why is my status stuck at Pre-Enrolled?
   As part of our Enrolment checks, we are required to check that you have a valid photographic identification document that proves your identity and nationality. Full guidance of what is accepted can be found on our Enrolment Documents webpage. We cannot proceed with your enrolment if you have not uploaded sufficient ID and your enrolment status will remain as pre-enrolled. You must do so by the enrolment deadline of Friday 3 February 2023. We may contact you if: 1. The type of ID you have uploaded does not meet our requirements If you have uploaded anything other than what is listed on the Enrolment Documents webpage linked above, it is likely that we will not be able to proceed with your enrolment  / we will contact you asking you to provide more ID. Typical examples of insufficient ID for students based on campus are: International students: a National Identity Card, a BRP card or a UKVI vignette instead of your passport biographical details page International students: a National Identity Card, a BRP card or a UKVI vignette instead of your passport biographical details page Home (British and Irish) students: a UK driver’s licence or birth certificate (both are required) or an out of date passport If you have uploaded one of the examples above as your proof of ID, that is likely the reason why you have been asked to provide more. If you have uploaded one of the examples above as your proof of ID, that is likely the reason why you have been asked to provide more. 2. There is an error with the file and we cannot view it If you know the document you have uploaded is valid as per our guidance, sometimes we ask you to provide more ID simply because the document you have uploaded is corrupt and we cannot open it. We ask that you re-save your image and re-upload it in MySIS - please don't simply re-upload the same image as it's likely that the error will still exist. Please be reminded that you should be able to see a preview of your image within the task. If you can see the image, it’s probable that we will be able to see it, too. 3. The image is too blurry or unclear for us to verify the details If we cannot make out the details in your ID because it is too blurry, it is a poor quality copy or you have cropped out parts of the document that we need to see, you should re-upload a good quality photo/copy of your document.
Can I replace photo ID with some other identification document?
   Please see our Enrolment Documentation webpage for guidance on acceptable documents that you should upload during Pre-Enrolment. We encourage all students to check ahead of Pre-Enrolment that you have a valid identification document and, if you do not, that you apply for one in plenty of time. You must have completed Pre-Enrolment and uploaded sufficient ID by the enrolment deadline. For students starting in January, this is 3 February 2023. If you are waiting for your identification document(s) to arrive or to be returned to you and you do not have any alternative documents as specified on the Enrolment Documentation webpage, you may need to wait until you have received your ID before completing Pre-Enrolment. We cannot proceed with your enrolment and you will not be fully or temporary enrolled if you have not uploaded valid ID during Pre-Enrolment. If you do not have the required documentation, please read on for guidance: British and Irish citizens: If you do not have an acceptable form of photographic identification as listed on the above linked Enrolment Documentation webpage, you may want to apply for a proof of age card with the PASS logo which can be used as evidence of your identity during enrolment in conjunction with your other document (e.g. birth certificate). This would likely be the quickest way for you to obtain official photographic identification as they can usually be sent to you within a few days.    Overseas students: You will need to provide a valid passport or valid travel document or application registration document (both sides). If you are unable to provide this, please contact immigrationcompliance@qmul.ac.uk for guidance.    Any student on a Distance Learning programme: If you are on a specified Distance Learning programme (regardless of your nationality) and do not have the required identification document(s), you should email distancelearning@qmul.ac.uk to inform us of what photographic identification you do have and we will advise you.  Failure to provide sufficient identification documentation will mean you will not be enrolled.
How do I fix an error in my Pre-Enrolment?
   You can amend the information/documents you have provided to us during Pre-Enrolment in MySIS until the point that Queen Mary Enrolment takes place, during which we will either fully or temporarily enrol you.  For example, if you selected the wrong funding option (e.g. told us you are self-funded rather than in receipt of a student loan) or uploaded the wrong photo for your ID card, you can go back into the Pre-Enrolment task and choose to ‘Amend’ the relevant section.  Once Queen Mary Enrolment has taken place and your enrolment has progressed, you will no longer have access to the Pre-Enrolment task. You will still be able to update some details (e.g. your contact details or Student Support Number) within MySIS via the ‘My Details’ tab.
Is there some issue with my Pre-Enrolment?
   Within the Pre-Enrolment task, you may find that you get stuck on a page where you cannot click 'Save & Continue' and progress to the next page. This is usually because you have not answered a mandatory question that requires an answer. Please double check that you have answered all questions on the page before trying to continue. If your telephone number is not being accepted, ensure you have selected the correct country code (on the left of the text field where you enter your number) and that the number is in a valid format. If you are still experiencing issues with the task then please contact your Enrolment Team for assistance: Postgraduate Research (PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates): pgrenrolment@qmul.ac.uk Postgraduate Research (PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates): pgrenrolment@qmul.ac.uk All other students should email enrolment@qmul.ac.uk
Will check my details in Pre-Enrolment?
   During Pre-Enrolment you can review the personal and programme details we hold for you. Please note that we check for inaccuracies in your details during Queen Mary Enrolment and endeavour to make any required corrections at the point of your enrolment or shortly after. We may be unable to make changes to your record at your request ahead of Queen Mary Enrolment. If you believe there are inaccuracies to any of the information below, please see what you should do, if anything: Surname / Forename(s): We are required to enrol you under the name on your identity documentation (e.g. passport). Therefore, if your name in Pre-Enrolment is different from that on your ID, it will be updated during Queen Mary Enrolment to match your ID. If you have changed your name (e.g. via Deed Poll) and your ID document does not reflect this, we will be able to update your record after your full or temporary enrolment. Our FAQ called 'My name is different to that shown on my ID - what should I do?' explains further. Surname / Forename(s): We are required to enrol you under the name on your identity documentation (e.g. passport). Therefore, if your name in Pre-Enrolment is different from that on your ID, it will be updated during Queen Mary Enrolment to match your ID. If you have changed your name (e.g. via Deed Poll) and your ID document does not reflect this, we will be able to update your record after your full or temporary enrolment. Our FAQ called 'My name is different to that shown on my ID - what should I do?' explains further. Date of Birth: This will be updated during Queen Mary Enrolment - you do not need to contact us about this before you have been fully/temporary enrolled. Fee Status: Your Fee Status is assessed by the Admissions Team. Please view the Fee Status Assessment webpage for guidance. If you believe your Fee Status is incorrect you should not complete Pre-Enrolment until any issues are resolved. Completing Pre-Enrolment means you accept fee liability. Domicile: This is dependent upon your permanent home residence at the point you became eligible for enrolment. This does not need to change throughout your studies, even if you move/have moved. Passport / Visa Details: This will be updated during Queen Mary Enrolment – you do not need to contact us about this before you have been fully enrolled. Programme Name: If your programme is incorrect, please contact your Admissions team or School/Institute in the first instance. School/Institute: Your programme determines which School/Institute you are part of. If your programme is incorrect, please contact your Admissions team or School/Institute in the first instance. Year of Course: If this is incorrect, please contact your School/Institute in the first instance. Mode of Attendance: If this is incorrect, please contact your School/Institute in the first instance.
How do I find out my Student Support Number?
   During the Pre-Enrolment task, if you select Student Finance as your method of payment then we will ask you for your Student Support Number (SSN). This is the unique number provided to you by the Student Loans Company (SLC) and usually consists of 4 letters, 8 numbers and 1 letter (e.g. SFDU12345678A). You should be able to find your number on your Student Finance 'Notification of Entitlement' letter. If you cannot find any documentation with your SSN on it, you should contact the SLC for confirmation of your number. If you do not know your number at the point of completing Pre-Enrolment, please tick the checkbox that indicates that you do not have your SSN number and continue with your Pre-Enrolment. How to provide your SSN at a later date Whilst you are still Pre-Enrolled (and Queen Mary Enrolment has not yet taken place), you can re-enter the Pre-Enrolment task and click 'Amend' next to 'Personal and Academic Details' and update your SSN. Or, you can add it to MySIS at a later date within the 'My Details' tab. We encourage you to do this as soon as possible as will be unable to confirm your attendance with the SLC unless we have your SSN meaning you will not receive any maintenance loan. Please be aware that Student Finance will not release any funds until after your programme start date, even if you are fully enrolled and we have confirmed your registration with them ahead of this date.
How do I correct my Qualification History?
   As part of Pre-Enrolment you are able to view the qualifications we hold on record for you within 'Qualification History'. If any of your qualifications or results are incorrect, please contact the Admissions Office via your MySIS Applicant Portal to inform them of what needs amending.
How do I proceed if I am a part of Distance Learning?
   Queen Mary has a number of Distance Learning programmes. Please note that these are specific programmes that are 100% online. If you are currently learning online or via mixed mode education but would normally be based solely on campus then you are not on a Distance Learning programme and the Distance Learning Enrolment webpages do not apply to you. The enrolment process is the same for Distance Learning and on campus students and all students should complete Pre-Enrolment ahead of Queen Mary Enrolment. The process of obtaining your student ID card is different and you will have an ID card posted to your contact address in the first few weeks of the semester. This ID card won’t provide access to buildings but will identify you as a student of Queen Mary. Distance Learning students should view our Distance Learning Enrolment webpages for full guidance on the enrolment process.
What is temporary enrolment?
   If you have been granted a temporary enrolment status it tends to mean that we are missing confirmation of your tuition fee payment or confirmation that you have arranged to pay your fees (e.g. by setting up a payment plan or submitting a sponsorship letter). It may also mean that we require evidence of your qualification(s) or, if you are a Medical or Dental student, we may be waiting for you confirmation from Occupational Health that you have completed your health questionnaire or blood tests. Until we receive all relevant documentation, you will remain temporary enrolled. Our webpage on resolving temporary enrolment explains further. You will also find information about which check(s) you have not passed via the email sent to you (subject line is 'Your Enrolment at QMUL') and in the 'My Enrolment' tab in MySIS.
What does enrolment get me?
   There will be a number of facilities and services that you will be able to access once you have completed the enrolment process, along with official documentation such as your Student Status Letter which is proof that you are a QMUL student. Please view our webpage on what you’ll have access to to find out more.
As a Medical student do I need to provide anything specific?
   The Admissions Office will contact you with instructions regarding any additional information that is required of you before you can start the enrolment process. This may be a health questionnaire, DBS check or an EPP clearance. You will be required to clear any checks before you are eligible for Pre-Enrolment. If you have any questions about your health questionnaire, DBS check or EPP clearance, please contact the Admissions Office via your MySIS Applicant Portal.
When is a DBS check necessary?
   In accordance with Department of Health guidance, students on specific medical and dental programmes are required to obtain enhanced disclosure from the Disclosure Barring Service (DBS). The Admissions Office will contact you prior to Pre-Enrolment to advise what you need to do. Please note that you will not be invited to start Pre-Enrolment until the Admissions Office are satisfied that you have submitted your DBS. All criminal convictions, including cautions, reprimands, warnings, bind over orders or similar including any minor offences, fixed penalty notices, penalty notices for disorder, ASBOs or VOOs must be declared to the Admissions Office prior to Pre-Enrolment, this includes “spent” convictions. Failure to make known matters that subsequently appear on a DBS check may be a disciplinary offence, which may result in de-registration from the programme. You will receive information from the Admissions Office if your programme requires a DBS check. Programmes include: BDS Dentistry BDS Dentistry BSc Oral Health DClinDent FT Oral Medicine DClinDent FT Orthodontics DClinDent FT Paediatric Dentistry DClinDent FT Periodontology DClinDent FT Prosthodontics FdCert Clinical Foundation Studies MBBS Medicine MBBS Medicine - Graduate Entry Programme MRes FT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies MSc DL FT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies MSc DL PT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies MSc FT (15 month) Gastroenterology MSc FT (24 month) Gastroenterology MSc FT Clinical Endocrinology MSc FT Critical Care MSc FT Dental Science for Clinical Practice MSc FT Experimental Oral Pathology (Oral Sciences) MSc FT Forensic Mental Health (with ELFT) MSc FT Gastroenterology MSc FT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies MSc FT Physician Associate Studies MSc PT Critical Care MSc PT Endodontic Practice MSc PT Forensic Mental Health (with ELFT) MSc PT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies MSc Variable Mode Critical Care PGDip DL FT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies PGDip DL PT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies PGDip FT Clinical Endocrinology PGDip FT Critical Care PGDip FT Gastroenterology PGDip FT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies PGDip FT Orthodontics PGDip PT Critical Care PGDip PT Endodontic Practice PGDip PT Mental Health: Psychological Therapies
What is the standard response time for Enrolment Team?
   Please be advised that during the enrolment period, we receive extremely high volumes of emails, phone calls and in-person visits. Therefore, we aim to respond to you within 10 working days although at times it might be slightly longer. We respond to all enquiries and we will get back to you as soon as possible. 1. Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MBBS, BDS, MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip): If you have contacted the Enrolment Team via enrolment@qmul.ac.uk or emailed the Fees Office, your email has been logged into the 'SEC Online' helpdesk system, accessible via MySIS. You will receive an email to confirm your enquiry has been logged and given your unique enquiry number. Please do not send new emails regarding your enrolment or fee issue. Instead, please re-open your initial enquiry and update it via the link in the email or directly through 'SEC Online'. Sending new, additional emails instead of updating your initial enquiry may cause a delay in us supporting you and reviewing any additional information you provide as our system does not automatically link new emails to existing enquiries. 2. Postgraduate Research students (e.g. PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng): If you have contacted the Enrolment Team via pgrenrolment@qmul.ac.uk, please be assured that the team will respond to you as soon as possible.
What could be the reason for not getting a response about Enrolment?
   If you haven't received any emails about Enrolment yet, it may be because they haven't been sent yet or possibly they are being sent to the wrong email address. Your invitation to Pre-Enrolment is sent to students who have accepted their offer and met all the conditions of that offer. If you have less than 2 weeks before you programme start date and you haven't received an invitation to complete Pre-Enrolment (remember to check your junk folder!), please contact the Admissions Team via your MySIS Applicant Portal. We send Enrolment emails to the personal email address that you have provided during the application process. You are asked to check and update your personal email address when completing the Pre-Enrolment task in MySIS. You will find your personal email address within the ‘Address Information’ section (it's on the ‘Permanent Home Address’ page). If you haven't received any emails from us, please use MySIS to check the personal email address we have on record for you and remember to check your junk inbox. As above, you can view and update this information as part of Pre-Enrolment but you can also view and edit this information throughout the year within MySIS. Guidance on how to update your contact details is available. A note regarding using your School email address: If you are using an email address from your current/previous education provider (e.g. School/College/University etc.), please be advised that your email address may expire once you are no longer registered with them. Therefore, we suggest you provide us with a personal email address that you have indefinite access to, to ensure that you don't miss any communications from us.
At which point can I receive the Letter of Enrolment?
   Once you are fully enrolled* we will register you for an account with Gradintelligence, the service provider of our official Student Status Letter that can be used as proof of your enrolment, for council tax exemption and opening a bank account, amongst other uses. Please be advised it may take up to 24 hours to receive your Gradintelligence activation email to your QMUL email address. Please have a look at our website for step-by-step guidance on activating your account. If you have been given temporary enrolment then you are not eligible for a Gradintelligence account or Student Status Letter. If you require a Student Status Letter but are not eligible for one, you may wish to check if you can use other documentation already in your possession, for example your QMUL offer letter that you would have received via email or your UCAS confirmation letter. *Please note that completion of the Pre-Enrolment task does not mean you are fully enrolled. QMUL are required to check the details and documents you submit during Pre-Enrolment before you are fully enrolled. Once your enrolment is finalised you will get an email with the subject line 'Your Enrolment at QMUL' and the first line of the email is 'Congratulations on completing the enrolment process. You are now fully enrolled'. We also have an FAQ on this page called 'When will I be enrolled?' which gives guidance on how to check your enrolment status in MySIS.
Do I need my ID card to attend a Welcome Week?
   Yes, if you have not yet enrolled you can still attend Welcome Week activities and sessions so you don’t miss out. Please be aware that if you haven’t got your Student ID yet, some activities may require you to show another form of ID.
How do I get my ID card?
   You will receive an email inviting you to collect your ID card from the Mile End campus. You will need to bring with you this email on your phone/electronic device or printed out. This is because this email displays your student ID number* which we will need to know. Please also ensure that you are either fully or temporary enrolled before attempting to collect your ID card as we will not be able to print your card until Queen Mary Enrolment has taken place. We cannot enrol you at the point of ID Card Collection - you must be enrolled before trying to collect your card. Guidance on how you can check your enrolment status can be found in our FAQ titled 'When will I be enrolled?'. We will use the photo you have uploaded during Pre-Enrolment for your ID card. Full details are on the ID Card Collection webpage. *Your student ID number is a 9 digit number. For new students starting in 2022/23, your ID number will begin with '22' or '23' (e.g. 221234567). It may have previously been referred to as your applicant number and will appear in a number of communications from us, such as your invitation to complete Pre-Enrolment and the email you receive informing you about ID card collection. It is the username that you use to access MySIS and it is also displayed within MySIS, within the 'My Details' tab.
Can I request my ID card earlier?
   Please be advised that you should not attempt to collect your Student ID Card before you have been asked to. Full guidance on where and when you can collect your ID card can be found on our ID Card collection webpage. We would like to reiterate that all students must be fully or temporary enrolled before visiting campus to collect your ID card. You will receive an email to confirm when you are enrolled and you can check your enrolment status in MySIS via the 'My Details' tab - scroll down to 'Enrolment Status'.
What if my ID card is broken?
   Please be advised that it could take up to 2 hours after collecting your student ID card for it to activate and give you access to the Library and other buildings. If you believe your card is not working and it is not allowing you access to the Library or any other buildings, please take it to the relevant support centre so that they can check it for you or email the team and inform them of the 8 digits on the back of your ID card: The Student Enquiry Centre: The Student Enquiry Centre (SEC) is the front face of Academic Registry and supports undergraduate and postgraduate taught students (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip). The Student Enquiry Centre: The Student Enquiry Centre (SEC) is the front face of Academic Registry and supports undergraduate and postgraduate taught students (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip). The Research Degrees Office: The Research Degrees Office (RDO) provides an administrative service to research degree students in the Doctoral College (e.g. PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates).
When can I effect my payment?
   You should pay your fees online ahead of Queen Mary Enrolment in order to be fully enrolled. You can even pay ahead of Pre-Enrolment as your tuition fees are recorded in your offer letter. If you have any questions about your fee payment or want to make a payment, please see the relevant tuition fees information page for guidance. Any tuition fee related questions should be directed to the Fees Office - the various ways of contacting them are listed in an FAQ on this page called 'How can I contact the Fees Office?'. Please note that for students funded by Student Finance or a Postgraduate Loan, we do not expect you to pay your full fees ahead of enrolment. Funding is released after you have been fully enrolled* - you just need to provide us with the correct details ahead of Queen Mary Enrolment so that we can fully enrol you. Please read on for guidance: Undergraduates funded by Student Finance: Please ensure you have selected this option during Pre-Enrolment and provided us with your Student Support Number (SSN) within the Pre-Enrolment task. This is the unique number provided to you by the Student Loans Company (SLC) and usually consists of 4 letters, 8 numbers and 1 letter (e.g. SFDU12345678A). If you do not know your number at the point of completing Pre-Enrolment, please tick the checkbox that indicates that you do not have your SSN number. You can add it to MySIS at a later date within the 'My Details' tab. We will be unable to confirm your attendance with the SLC unless we have your SSN meaning you will not receive any maintenance loan. Undergraduates funded by Student Finance: Please ensure you have selected this option during Pre-Enrolment and provided us with your Student Support Number (SSN) within the Pre-Enrolment task. This is the unique number provided to you by the Student Loans Company (SLC) and usually consists of 4 letters, 8 numbers and 1 letter (e.g. SFDU12345678A). If you do not know your number at the point of completing Pre-Enrolment, please tick the checkbox that indicates that you do not have your SSN number. You can add it to MySIS at a later date within the 'My Details' tab. We will be unable to confirm your attendance with the SLC unless we have your SSN meaning you will not receive any maintenance loan. Postgraduates funded by a Postgraduate Loan: Please ensure you have selected this option during Pre-Enrolment. You will need to pay a £50 admin charge and arrange a payment plan (online) with the Fees Office before we can fully enrol you. You should also send your Postgraduate Loan summary letter to fees-plan@qmul.ac.uk. Please refer to the payment plan guidance page for information on what is required to pay in instalments as this differs depending on whether you are fully or partially funded. The postgraduate fees webpage has further information. *Please be aware that Student Finance will not release any funds until after your programme start date, even if you are fully enrolled and we have confirmed your registration with them ahead of this date.
What should I do if I confuse my tuition fee payment methods in Pre-Enrolment?
   As part of the Pre-Enrolment task, you are asked to choose a 'funding option' to confirm how you are paying your tuition fees. This is so that we can support you and send you an email based on your chosen payment method to provide you with guidance on how you should pay your fees. Don't worry if you have selected the incorrect funding option as we have recorded all of the funding option emails online so that you can read the guidance most relevant to you. If you still have access to the Pre-Enrolment task you can amend your funding option type, however you will not receive a new email from the Fees Office with guidance on how to pay. Therefore, we encourage you to check our funding options information. Tips! Questions about your fee payments should be directed to the Fees Office rather than the Enrolment Team: fees@qmul.ac.uk Questions about your fee payments should be directed to the Fees Office rather than the Enrolment Team: fees@qmul.ac.uk If your parents/guardians/friends are paying your tuition fees on your behalf, you are classed as 'Self-funded'. Whether you are classed as a 'Home' or 'Overseas' student is linked to your Fee Status Assessment.  Generally, a ‘Home’ student would normally be a UK national and be ordinarily resident in the UK on the first day of the first academic year and ordinarily resident in the UK, the Republic of Ireland, the specified British Overseas Territories or the Channel Islands for three years before the first day of the first academic year of your course.
What do I need to create a Payment Plan?
   If your fees are more than £1,000 per year, you can pay in instalments. This does not apply to Pre-sessional programmes, short courses and one-semester Study Abroad Associate programmes. Logging in to the Payment Plan portal: You will need to log into the payment plan portal using your Queen Mary username. This is in the format abc123. Your QM username is included in the IT Account Details email sent to you from IT Services within 72 hours of being invited to complete Pre-Enrolment. You can also find your QM username in MySIS within the 'My Details' tab. If you are having issues logging into your Payment Plan Portal, IT Services will be able to support you. Please contact them via the 24/7 Live Chat. Please see the Finance Payment Plan webpage for full guidance on what you need to do to set up a plan. If you have any questions about your Payment Plan, the Fees Office can support you: fees-plan@qmul.ac.uk
Are there any specific payment rules for Student Loans?
     If you are paying your tuition fees via a loan from the Student Loans Company, please be advised that we do not expect you to pay your full fees ahead of enrolment. If you are paying your tuition fees via a loan from the Student Loans Company, please be advised that we do not expect you to pay your full fees ahead of enrolment. All funding is released after you have been fully enrolled - you just need to provide us with the correct details ahead of Queen Mary Enrolment so that we can fully enrol you. Please read on for guidance: Undergraduates funded by Student Finance Your tuition fees are paid directly to the university and your maintenance loan is paid directly to you. In order to be fully enrolled, please ensure you have selected Student Finance as your funding option during Pre-Enrolment and provided us with your Student Support Number (SSN) within the Pre-Enrolment task. This is the unique number provided to you by the Student Loans Company (SLC) and usually consists of 4 letters, 8 numbers and 1 letter (e.g. SFDU12345678A). If you do not know your number at the point of completing Pre-Enrolment, please tick the checkbox that indicates that you do not have your SSN number. You can add it to MySIS at a later date within the 'My Details' tab. We will be unable to confirm your attendance with the SLC unless we have your SSN meaning you will not receive any maintenance loan. Please be aware that Student Finance will not release any funds until after your programme start date, even if you are fully enrolled and we have confirmed your registration with them ahead of this date. Postgraduates funded by a Postgraduate Loan Please be advised that your funding is released to you rather than directly to the university. You are then expected to pay your tuition fees to the university. In order to be fully enrolled, please ensure you have selected the Postgraduate Loan funding option during Pre-Enrolment. You will need to pay a £50 admin charge and arrange a payment plan (online) with the Fees team. You should also send your Postgraduate Loan summary letter to fees-plan@qmul.ac.uk. Please refer to the payment plan guidance page for information on what is required to pay in instalments as this differs depending on whether you are fully or partially funded. The postgraduate fees webpage has further information. Please be aware that Student Finance will not release any funds until after your programme start date, even if you are fully enrolled and we have confirmed your registration with them ahead of this date.
When can I expect my maintenance loan from Student Finance?
   In order for any Student Loans Company (SLC) funding (e.g. your maintenance loan) to be released to you, the following conditions need to have been met: You must be Fully Enrolled You must be Fully Enrolled You must have provided us with your Student Support Number (SSN) Your programme must have started Queen Mary provides confirmation of enrolment to the SLC on a daily basis. As long as you are fully enrolled and have given us your SSN then we will confirm your enrolment and the SLC will release the funding to you, usually within three working days of us confirming your enrolment with them. Queen Mary provides confirmation of enrolment to the SLC on a daily basis. As long as you are fully enrolled and have given us your SSN then we will confirm your enrolment and the SLC will release the funding to you, usually within three working days of us confirming your enrolment with them. However, please be aware that the SLC will not release any funds until after your programme start date, even if you are fully enrolled and we have confirmed your registration with them ahead of this date. Please read on for guidance: Undergraduates funded by Student Finance Your tuition fees are paid directly to the university and your maintenance loan is paid directly to you. In order to be fully enrolled, please ensure you have selected Student Finance as your funding option during Pre-Enrolment and provided us with your Student Support Number (SSN) within the Pre-Enrolment task. This is the unique number provided to you by the Student Loans Company (SLC) and usually consists of 4 letters, 8 numbers and 1 letter (e.g. SFDU12345678A). If you do not know your number at the point of completing Pre-Enrolment, please tick the checkbox that indicates that you do not have your SSN number. You can add it to MySIS at a later date within the 'My Details' tab. We will be unable to confirm your attendance with the SLC unless we have your SSN meaning you will not receive any maintenance loan. Postgraduates funded by a Postgraduate Loan Please be advised that your funding is released to you rather than directly to the university. You are then expected to pay your tuition fees to the university. In order to be fully enrolled, please ensure you have selected the Postgraduate Loan funding option during Pre-Enrolment. You will need to pay a £50 admin charge and arrange a payment plan (online) with the Fees team. You should also send your Postgraduate Loan summary letter to fees-plan@qmul.ac.uk. Please refer to the payment plan guidance page for information on what is required to pay in instalments as this differs depending on whether you are fully or partially funded. The postgraduate fees webpage has further information.
What do I do if there is a delay in my Student Finance loan?
   The Advice and Counselling team at QMUL have written a very helpful guide that covers a lot of information about Student Finance, what it is and how to apply: Student Finance Advice Guide If you have applied for Student Finance but are having issues with your application, your approval has been delayed, or if you have been deemed ineligible, please see the Advice and Counselling webpage on what to do if you are experiencing issues with your Student Finance for guidance and how to contact a Welfare Adviser if you need support.
What if I applied for Student Finance at a different university?
   If you applied for Student Finance for a different university for the current academic year but you are now enrolling at QMUL, you are asked to tell us this information during Pre-Enrolment so that we can support you. If you did not provide this information, please email sturecords@qmul.ac.uk stating your ID number, full name, your Student Finance Student Support Number (SSN, e.g. SFDU12345678A) and the name of the University that your Student Finance application is currently with. If you did provide this information during Pre-Enrolment then we already have it and you are not required to email us. We cannot confirm your enrolment at QMUL with Student Finance until you have told us which other university your Student Finance application is currently with and your SSN. This means your tuition fees will not be paid and any maintenance loan will not be released to you. Further guidance on Student Finance is available online.
When can I expect my invoice?
   You will only receive your invoice after you have successfully completed the Pre-Enrolment task in MySIS, depending on how you have told us you will be paying your fees. Please be advised it will be sent to you via email usually within 72 hours of completing the task. You will, however, receive an email shortly after completing Pre-Enrolment with guidance on how to pay you fees and who to contact if you need support. Contact details will differ depending on the method you will be paying your fees so please refer to this email in the first instance. The subject line is 'Tuition Fees - Funding Option'. We have also recorded all of the Funding Option emails online so you can read the information relevant to you. Please see the tuition fees webpage if you need any guidance on paying your fees. Any tuition fee related questions should be directed to the Fees Office using the contact details you have been given. The various ways of contacting them are also listed in an FAQ on this page called 'How can I contact the Fees Office?'.
How do I arrange a meeting with Fees Office?
   If you need to speak to a Finance Officer or view further guidance on how to pay your fees, please see the information below. Please be reminded that all teams receive an extremely high volume of enquiries during the enrolment period and therefore we aim to respond to you as soon as possible. Please remember to include your Student ID number in all correspondence! Contact the Fees Office by email If emailing, please email one of the addresses below depending on your circumstances: General Email: fees@qmul.ac.uk General Email: fees@qmul.ac.uk For help with setting up a payment plan: fees-plan@qmul.ac.uk If your fees are being paid via a scholarship/sponsor: feesponsor@qmul.ac.uk Distance Learning students: feesdl@qmul.ac.uk Visit the Fees Office in person Visit the Fees Office in person The Fees Office is based in the Ground Floor of iQ East Court (previously known as Scape East), Mile End Campus (number 64 on the map). Please note that the office does not accept cash payments and if you need to set up a payment plan you should do it online. Opening hours: Monday - Friday between 9am - 5pm  Visit the Fees website Visit the Fees website Depending on your level of study, please see your tuition fees webpage for guidance: Undergraduate fees information (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MBBS, BDS) Undergraduate fees information (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MBBS, BDS) Taught postgraduates fees information (e.g. MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip) Research postgraduates fees information (e.g. PhD, MPhil, DClinDent)
What are the conditions for QM Bursary?
   Fully enrolled students who have applied for Student Finance will automatically be assessed for the QM Bursary if you have given consent for your information to be given to us. If you are not getting a loan from Student Finance you can still receive the QM Bursary - you will need to request to be income assessed by completing the Student Finance forms and putting '0' under the loan amount. The QM Bursary is for home UG students assessed with a household income under £35k. It is paid in November and March, however we will continue to assess people who become eligible throughout the year and the deadline for 2022/23 is 31 July 2023. Your household income needs to be assessed by Student Finance, though you do not need to take out loans. Full details of how to do this are on the QM Bursary webpage.
Do you offer any scholarships?
   We have an interactive scholarships database which allows you to search for scholarships you may be eligible for based on your circumstances.
What are the preconditions for receiving a bank letter?
   We do not provide bank letters as your Student Status Letter should be suitable documentation for opening a UK bank account and is the official documentation that we provide to our students for this purpose. You will have access to your Student Status Letter following your full enrolment. If you would like to open a student bank account ahead of your full enrolment, please be advised that we will not be able to provide you with your letter. However, you may be able to use your QMUL offer letter that you would have received via email or your UCAS confirmation letter. Please speak to your chosen bank or view their requirements on their website.
Which bank am supposed to choose?
   It is your decision which bank you choose to look after your money, however, please see some local bank branches listed below or look on your chosen banks website for a branch closest to you: Bank of China: 107 Shaftesbury Avenue, London W1D 5DA Bank of China: 107 Shaftesbury Avenue, London W1D 5DA Barclays: 240 Whitechapel Rd, Whitechapel, London E1 1BJ HSBC: 465 Bethnal Green Road, London E2 9QW Lloyds: 3-5 Whitechapel Road, City of London, London E1 1DU Metro: 117-121 Bishopsgate, London, EC2M 7PP Natwest: 403 Bethnal Green Rd, Bethnal Green, London E2 0AF Santander: One Canada Square Unit 2, Canary Wharf, London, E14 5AB For further information please visit our Advice and Counselling guidance page on Banking in the UK which is dedicated to international and EU students at Queen Mary who are new to the UK and need to open a bank account.
Are there any tax exemptions available for students?
   Fully enrolled students on a full-time programme of study are eligible for Council Tax exemption. For students living in the boroughs of Newham, Redbridge, Tower Hamlets or Waltham Forest: Queen Mary reports Council Tax exemption directly to the Council but you must complete the relevant disregard form and return it to your Council. For students living in the boroughs of Newham, Redbridge, Tower Hamlets or Waltham Forest: Queen Mary reports Council Tax exemption directly to the Council but you must complete the relevant disregard form and return it to your Council. For students living in any other borough: You will need to provide your Council with proof that you are a full-time student. Please use your Student Status Letter for this purpose. You can download it as a PDF or print it off if you require a physical copy. Full information and links to the disregard forms are available on the Council Tax exemption webpage.
What conditions do I need to meet to get a discount on my travel card?
   You should be fully enrolled before applying for a discounted travel card. Transport for London (TfL) will ask Queen Mary to confirm that you are fully enrolled so if you apply early/ahead of your full enrolment, your application will be put on hold and it will take longer for your application to be validated. You may be interested in an 18+ Oyster card, 16+ Zip Oyster photocard or 16 - 25 Rail Card. Please see our webpage on discounted travel and ensure that you check your eligibility for a travel card before applying to TfL.
What if my name does not match that on my ID?
   During enrolment we are required to check your identity/nationality and process this using the name you applied with and record your name on your student record as it is written in your identity documentation (e.g. passport). For name changes that do not yet appear on identity documentation e.g. those updated through a deed poll, we will process these changes after enrolment. Please contact us after your full or temporary enrolment so that we can update your name on your student record. Guidance on who to contact and what documents you will need to provide can be found on our Student Names webpage. When you visit the ID card collection centre, please notify the operator that a change of name has been processed to ensure that your ID card will show your updated name. ID card templates show forename initials and surname.
What should about mistake in my name or missing middle name?
   Please do not be concerned if your name is incorrect in the Pre-Enrolment task. We understand that this happens and make steps to correct it without you needing to request an amendment. Please do not contact us about a spelling mistake in your name or if you want to add your middle name to your record before Queen Mary Enrolment has taken place and you have been fully or temporary enrolled. We will be unable to accept requests to make changes to your name ahead of Queen Mary Enrolment. This is because we are required to record your name on your student record as it is written in your official documentation (e.g. passport). Therefore, if the name(s) you have given us or have been recorded during the application process are misspelled and/or do not match your official documentation (i.e. passport), then we will update it on your behalf during Queen Mary Enrolment - you do not need to request this. If you have been fully or temporary enrolled and an amendment to your name is still required, please tell us when you come to collect your student ID card so that we can ensure that your name is correct on your card before it is printed. ID card templates show forename initials and surname.
How can I correct my date of birth?
   Please do not be concerned if your date of birth is incorrect in the Pre-Enrolment task. We understand that this happens and make steps to correct it without you needing to request an amendment. Please do not contact us about amending your date of birth in MySIS before Queen Mary Enrolment has taken place and you have been fully or temporary enrolled. We will be unable to accept requests to make changes to your date of birth ahead of Queen Mary Enrolment. This is because we are required to record your date of birth on your student record as it is written in your official documentation (e.g. passport). Therefore, we will update it on your behalf during Queen Mary Enrolment - you do not need to request this. If you have been fully or temporary enrolled and an amendment to your birthdate is still required, please contact the Student Enquiry Centre.
What should I do to update my address?
   Read our guidance on how to update your contact details within MySIS.
How do I identify what programme student am I?
   You will see in various places on the enrolment webpages that there are different email addresses that we ask you to contact depending on your programme/level of study. This is because different teams are supporting students on different programmes and in order for us to assist you quickly and effectively it is useful if you contact the correct team. You may be unsure which level you are or whether you are a postgraduate taught or research. Please see the guidance below: Undergraduate: These are programmes that are level 3-6. You may see them referred to as 'UG'. Examples include BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MBBS, BDS, FdCert, GradDip, Undergraduate Associates and Pre-sessional programmes. View our A-Z of undergraduate programmes. Undergraduate: These are programmes that are level 3-6. You may see them referred to as 'UG'. Examples include BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MBBS, BDS, FdCert, GradDip, Undergraduate Associates and Pre-sessional programmes. View our A-Z of undergraduate programmes. Postgraduate Taught: These are level 7 programmes. You may see them referred to as 'PGT'. They are usually taken after completion of an undergraduate degree. They may include an element of research (e.g. the dissertation) but it is not considered a research degree. Examples include MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip and Postgraduate Associate. View our A-Z of postgraduate taught programmes. Postgraduate Research: These are level 8 programmes. You may see them referred to 'PGR'. They include Research Associates, DClinDent and PhD - a doctoral research degree which is the highest level of academic qualification you can achieve. View our A-Z of postgraduate research programmes.
Is it possible to change my programme?
   The Change of Programme process will be different depending on where you are in the enrolment process. 1. If you have not yet completed Pre-Enrolment in MySIS and want to change your programme, please contact the Admissions Office via the 'Request a Change' tile in your MySIS Applicant Portal. 2. If you have completed Pre-Enrolment and progressed in the enrolment process then please contact your School/Institute for guidance instead. Please visit your School/Institute's website to find their contact details. Information on the process can also be found online depending on your level of study:  Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip) should see the Student Enquiry Centre Change of Programme page for information and to download the form you will need to complete. Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip) should see the Student Enquiry Centre Change of Programme page for information and to download the form you will need to complete. Postgraduate research students (e.g. PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates) should see the Research Degrees Office Change of Programme page for information and to download the form you will need to complete.  Please be advised that there is no guarantee that change of programme requests can or will be accepted. If you were accepted via Clearing, your offer is only valid for the programme you were offered on and you will not be permitted to request a change of programme to another School or Institute.
What are the rules of deferral or withdrawal from a programme?
   The withdrawal and deferral process differs depending on your programme level and your enrolment status. Undergraduate and Postgraduate Taught students (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip) 1. If you have not yet been fully or temporarily enrolled (but you may have completed Pre-Enrolment) and wish to defer entry until the following year or want to withdraw from your place, please contact the Admissions Office via the 'Request a change' tile in your MySIS Applicant Portal. MBBS/BDS students If you have not yet been fully or temporarily enrolled (but you may have completed Pre-Enrolment) and wish to defer entry until the following year or want to withdraw from your place, please contact the Undergraduate Medicine and Dentistry Admissions team on smdadmissions@qmul.ac.uk. 2. If you have already been fully or temporarily enrolled, you can withdraw from the university but instead of deferring you will need to interrupt your studies, starting your programme with a future intake. Both interruption and withdrawals for students who have been enrolled require completion of a form that needs to be submitted to your School/Institute for authorisation. Advice guides are available on the Advice and Counselling website under 'Resitting, interrupting or leaving your course' for both home and international students. Please contact your School/Institute for support - you will find their contact details on their website. Postgraduate Research Students (e.g. PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates) Students should see the Research Degrees Office website for guidance on deferring your start date, interrupting and withdrawing.
What is the meaning behind the ID number?
   Your student ID number is a 9 digit number. For new students starting in 2022/23, your ID number will begin with '22' or '23' (e.g. 221234567). It may have previously been referred to as your applicant number and will appear in a number of communications from us, such as your invitation to complete Pre-Enrolment and the email you receive informing you about ID card collection. It is the username that you use to access MySIS and it is also displayed within MySIS, within the 'My Details' tab.
What is the date of term start?
   Please refer to your offer letter for confirmation of your programme start date. For most programmes starting in January 2023, the programme start date is 16 January with teaching starting on 23 January. However, there are a number of exceptions so please refer to your offer letter for confirmation. The Queen Mary Calendar provides information on semester dates for the upcoming year.
How do I access my timetable?
   You might find that if you are not fully enrolled or you have not completed the module registration process then you will not have access to your full timetable. Your timetable is accessed via QMplus, QM App or the timetables website (choose 'Students' from the menu on the left hand side). Please make sure you have completed Pre-Enrolment in MySIS before attempting to access your timetable. Guidance on how to access your timetable is available on the E-Learning webpage. We cannot advise you when your full timetable will be available to you as this is dependent on when your School/Institute allocates you to your classes and is also dependent upon your progress through the enrolment process. As your School/Institute manage your timetable, please contact them if you have any questions about your schedule or any teaching related matters. You will find their contact details on their website which you can find on the list of Schools and Departments.
Who can assist me in choosing my modules?
   Your School/Institute will advise you if you need to register for any modules and will guide you through the process. They will also be able to assist you if you've changed your mind and want to amend your elective modules. You will find their contact details on their website.
124. How do I access my reading list?
   Your reading list should be available on QMplus - please contact your School/Institute (contact details are available on your departments website) or the Module Organiser if you require assistance.
Where do I find who my tutor or advisor is?
   Your Academic Advisor is allocated to you by your School/Institute administrators at the start of your programme. You can see who your advisor is via MySIS within the ‘My Details’ tab.
Show me my programme induction schedule?
   Information on events taking place during Welcome Week (16 - 20 January 2023) can be found on the New Students website when available. You can access your programme induction schedule via your School/Institute's QMplus page.
Am I required to provide my immigration permissions?
   You are not required to upload evidence of your immigration permission as part of the Pre-Enrolment task as you will be asked to provide this separately. Within the Pre-Enrolment task your visa details may say 'No data on record' - please do not be alarmed by this. The Immigration Compliance Team will contact you via email to request evidence of your immigration permission (e.g. the front and back of your Biometric Residence Permit (BRP) card and/or the immigration sticker in your passport). The Immigration Compliance Team will provide you with guidance on what documents they require and how to submit them. If you are unable to provide evidence that you have immigration permission or a status that permits you to study your programme at QMUL, you will be de-registered. For examples of the documents you will need to show in specific circumstances please see our ‘Permission to Enrol – Immigration Permission’ webpage.
How do I correct my Passport details?
   Please do not be concerned if your passport details are incorrect in MySIS before you have been fully enrolled. We understand that this happens and make steps to correct it without you needing to request an amendment. During Queen Mary Enrolment we are required to check your passport biographical details page that you have uploaded during Pre-Enrolment and record certain details. Therefore, if there are any inaccuracies in the data stored in MySIS we will correct them as part of our checks. If you have been fully enrolled and an amendment to your passport details is still required, please email immigrationcompliance@qmul.ac.uk and include a photo of your passport biographical details page.
Can I transfer funds from abroad to cover my fees?
   As an international student you can pay your fees online or by bank transfer or, if paying from overseas, you can also pay your fees via bank transfer or international card in your local currency via the Barclays/Transfermate and Flywire payment facilities. Please see the Fees Office International Fees FAQs for guidance on how to pay your tuition fees.
What is a biometric permit?
   When your student immigration permission is granted, you will also be issued with a letter confirming the date and Post Office location from which you can collect your Biometric Residence Permit (BRP). You must usually collect your BRP within 10 days of arrival in the UK. Further guidance can be found on the BRP Information webpage - please read the information on the BRP page very carefully.
Is there any requirement to contact Police?
   Police Registration has been suspended for Student Visa holders as of 01 August 2022. During the suspension, new Student Visas will be granted without the Police Registration condition. This will also apply retrospectively to students who were granted Student Visas before 01 August 2022.
How can I request assistance?
   Please remember to include your student ID number in all correspondence! There are a number of services at Queen Mary that are here to support you as a new student and throughout your studies including: Advice and Counselling Service  Advice on Money (funding, budgeting, hardship funds, fee status) Advice on Money (funding, budgeting, hardship funds, fee status) Immigration (immigration permissions, traveling, working, lost documents) Counselling (support, help in a crisis, self-help resources) Mental health and emotional wellbeing  Disability and Dyslexia Services (DDS)
How do I contact school?
   If you have any questions regarding your teaching and learning, your timetable, module registration etc., please contact your School/Institute. Please use the list of departments in order to find your your School/Institute's website. You will be able find your department's contact details on their website. You are also welcome to contact your Student Support Officer who can offer advice on matters you feel may be impeding your ability to study.
What is the contact number or email with IT?
   Please be advised that only IT Services can provide you with your IT account details and email address and support you with logging into QM platforms.  To speak with IT Services, please call +44 020 7882 8888 or use the 'live chat' facility.  You may need to provide your name and contact email address. Please be aware that you can find your QM email address and college username in MySIS within the 'My Details' tab, if needed. Receiving your IT account information: Your IT credentials will allow you access to platforms such as the online learning environment QMplus, the QM App, your QM email account, Eduroam (campus wi-fi), and more! Receipt of your IT account details is not dependent on whether you have been fully or temporarily enrolled. You will be sent this information along with your QMUL email address from IT Services within 72 hours of being sent the email inviting you to complete Pre-Enrolment. If you have not received this email please contact IT Services via their live chat. Regardless of whether you are fully or temporarily enrolled, you will still be able to access platforms such as QMplus, the QM app, your QM email account and Eduroam. Please contact IT Services if you have not received your credentials and more than 72 hours has passed since being invited to complete Pre-Enrolment. Or, if you have received your credentials but are having trouble accessing your accounts or need assistance with resetting your passwords, IT Services will be able to support you. A 24/7 live chat facility is accessible via the orange button or call +44 020 7882 8888.
Is there a website on residences and accommodation?
   Please visit the QMUL Residences website for their contact information. Unfortunately, the Enrolment Team or Student Enquiry Centre cannot support you questions about housing, however Residences have some useful information for new arrivals along with some frequently asked questions to help guide you.
How do I make sure I received all necessary information?
   Before joining us at Queen Mary you will be sent a series of emails to share information about life on our campuses, the support available and events to get involved with during Welcome Week. These will be recorded on the New Students 'Email Communications' webpage so that you can make sure you haven't missed anything.
How can I register with a doctor or medic?
   Please see the 'Health FAQs' for information including how to register with a GP, who to contact at the university if you have a disability and what you can do to stay healthy as a student.
Is there a map of university locations?
   Maps of all of our campuses are available online via the Campus Maps webpage.
How do I get stamp on my documents?
   Undergraduate and postgraduate taught students (e.g. BA, BSc, MSci, LLB, MA, MSc, LLM, PgCert/Dip): The Student Enquiry Centre can stamp/sign your documents, if needed. Please check the opening hours before visiting. Postgraduate research students (e.g. PhD, MD(Res), MPhil, DClinDent, DEng, Research Associates): The Research Degrees Office can help you. Please check the opening hours before visiting.
